[Music]
good afternoon and thank you for all
your tremendous support of Apple and for
being here with us this week personally
I think we're at a watershed we are
going in the industry's direction and
because of advancements we've made in
the last year I believe we are all well
positioned for the future so today I'd
like to tell you how we see that future
the strategy that follows and most
importantly the platform's we were
providing you and the rich opportunities
they offer you so let's get started
earlier you heard from Gil that the
Internet is key to Apple's future why
well for two reasons first are
publishing technologies make us the
industry leader in content creation
today and tomorrow
because when extend that lead by making
those technologies even better and by
applying our experience and ease-of-use
to broaden the audience for web
publishing number two equally important
we now have a platform to deliver
application services and it came about
through acquiring next technology and as
you might imagine
we're very excited about it now let me
show you why and here to help me is
Wiley Hodges Wiley Thank You Allen
okay now I've been doing a lot of
looking around today and unfortunately a
lot of demos and stuff and unfortunately
they get to eat quite as much lunch as
I'd like so I thought today we're going
to buy some pizza you like to eat and I
think that excellent well if we were
going to buy a pizza on the internet
today how would we do it a little bit
difficult a little bit it's a lot of
difficulty I think we'd probably have to
search through find pizza restaurants
with some city guide or something like
this eventually we find the right place
and it's open and it's near us we might
be able to order pizza and since we're
on stage we need it here we need it here
and now it's fast okay so we're going to
use some application services on the web
to take care of this problem for us I'm
going to enter cyber slice which is an
application build with objects first
thing we want to do is in our phone
number now I got the phone number for
the convention center here so we'll
enter it in two seven seven to nine
hundred clicking go on it'll bring up an
account if I already have one or if
anyone here already has one I look I
have line what a remarkable thing so
turns out Ellen has an account already
to order Pete says I don't like that you
got one yesterday is I responsible um
what we're going to do is now go on
because close this is you and this is
where we want this pizza delivered right
and we're going to see what kind of
piece of places are near the Convention
Center so what happens is cyber slice
looks in a geographic information system
and correlates our address to delivery
zones of different pizza restaurants
then looks in a database of scheduled
information for pizza restaurants that
have delivery areas that include the
convention center Hall one and finally
shows us those that are open so looking
at this list I see three restaurants
that I know and love and Pizza Go Go
it's fantastic that alright so I click
on Pizza I go go now we go to another
database and actually look up different
pizza restaurant menus so we see Pete I
go go we see their logo up here and
we're looking at their specialty pizzas
and I hear some of these are fantastic I
like that I do like that stone yeah I
fear it's magically delicious we're
going to get the pesto plus pizza let me
click on that and clicking on that
brings up all the options associated
with pesto plus pizza what are those
well we see it's a medium for 1375 large
18 bucks and feeling peckish we made it
the large-- also good price performance
yes excellent just like looks like that
isn't that right yeah okay and we'll
just take one for now because there's
only four or five of those participating
in this and clicking done hey sorry
Pizza alien bored morning
so you see here on our order summary
we've got one pizza in our order and if
I click done over this very frantic guy
on the telephone yeah this is kind of
the weirdest part this is tied into the
back end of an integrated voice response
system you know those voices that are
computer-generated and now it's going to
call the pizza place they don't even
need to have a terminal on the net or
anything and give them the order for our
pizza press one to respond and say yes
we got it
so as soon as we say what how we're
going to pay and I don't think we going
to show your credit card number
yeah okay cash we'll pay cash and save
submit order and so now we've submitted
murder for pizza Anthony what we're
going to have some later sounds good to
me
okay thanks now what you just saw we're
some pretty advanced capabilities and to
zoom in on why let's look at what
happens today with content creation and
delivery on the Internet
so basically there's a problem and you
all know it it's a sea of data and media
that we first have to transform into
knowledge and then deliver in a way that
users can understand now this is hardly
new we have struggled with it forever
but the internet is exacerbated this
problem dramatically by allowing faster
and broader access to a body of
information that is growing
exponentially up until now there's been
publishing tools that some of you have
created to transform data and media on
or online delivery and what they've
worked very well the value adds fill
rest either with the Web author who
burns the midnight oil or with the user
who has to swim through that sea of
unorganized content happily there's
another solution and we saw it earlier
today in the cyber slice demo where we
turn data into geography restaurants and
menu choices and we turn that into
knowledge that we acted upon but where
the amount of effort required by users
and authors was substantially reduced
because application services
assumed much of that burden so we've got
two distinct though overlapping areas in
which to develop the first is content
creation whereas the internet publishing
company Apple is the recognized leader
the lead by the way that we believe will
only grow bigger because we're advancing
our technologies and promoting our
advantages in this area and the second
is in creating products and tools in the
application services state in other
words you now have more choice and more
opportunity in a minute we'll talk about
specifics but beforehand here is the
gist of our overall strategy we're going
to do everything in our power to give
you more development platforms and
better development platforms than anyone
else in the industry some of them are
Apple developed others are Apple enabled
some are exclusively Macintosh others
are cross-platform and taken together I
think you'll see some real choice and
real opportunity and while I don't
expect you to develop on all the
platforms or maybe even most of them I
do expect you'll see both creatives and
business opportunities to help all of us
to be successful and by the way I think
that's true whether you're a big
developer or a small one a tool maker or
an application builder or whether your
focus is the enterprise small business
education consumer or any other market
so with that is a preface let's look at
these platforms and here they are
I'll highlight some of the key points
about each of them and then in the
breakout sessions you can drill down
even further so first of all the Mac OS
what can I say
it's a great internet platform and a
growing one because according to a
computer intelligence contrary to what
some people would have you believe we
are in fact growing market share for the
Mac OS plus let's remember that there
are 27 million Mac's out there and a
growing number of
so the overall installed mac OS space is
well over 50 million people furthermore
at the same time Apple's internet share
has more than held its own in fact did
any of you read the last survey in web
leaked now two things jumped out at me
the first is that there are more than
60% professionals uses a Mac to publish
on the web and the second is that more
than 50% of the total volume of content
on the web
comes from people using Macintosh which
means that if we look at the web today
the Mac OS is clearly the market leader
in content creation and will continue to
be because Mac OS 8 which is about to
ship has built-in features that make it
even easier for customers to access the
net it also provides you with some great
opportunities and let's look at a couple
of them and here to show us is Peter
Lowe Peter is hiding back here hi Ellen
it's enough code early yes it's a system
now running Peter well I'll tell you
Alan you know Mac OS 8 data 3 isn't
quite leading-edge enough for me so I
had to go and install mrj 1.5 alpha 2
and we are just in the process of
booting it as we speak and there comes
to the demo dock and that little sound
now not know this Internet that's as
much good luck all's I know well I just
wanted to highlight quickly you see we
have a picture here as a Toronto skyline
because I'm Canadian - eh I had to get
another little bit of a bit in there ok
um so yeah we want to highlight a
variety of different features that Mac
OS have to service the needs of our
customers in that internet space the
first thing I just want to touch on on
very very quickly is that we're building
into the infrastructure all the tools
people need of course tcp/ip support and
ot PPP built right into their operating
system but we're also ensuring that
people have the facilities they need to
get on the internet easily so we've got
an assistance architecture that will
step users through the process of
getting
the net as easily as possible okay we
also have a variety of different
integration points without throughout
the user experience for example icons
right on the desktop for browsing the
internet and for your mail and these
tools launch the users preferred tool
for these purposes so if the user
prefers Eudora or emailer or Netscape
Navigator or Internet Explorer they'll
get the tool that they they prefer in
every situation now earlier in the day
in the keynote we highlighted a number
of different ways in which Java has been
integrated into the system right and I
demonstrated one or two little applets
and a fairly significant application but
there's another one that I really really
liked that I thought you might like as
well there's a thin a little bit in the
news lately about a chess match that's
been going on sponsored by a company I
think you might be familiar with rightly
and you know the other day garry
kasparov didn't do that great and he had
a bit of a hissy fit after the match and
you know I was really kind of curious
what went wrong for Gary so I checked
out IBM's website and sure enough they
have a java-based application that
allows you not only to monitor the match
while it was on that actually go back
take a look at the match see all of the
commentary and again step through the
entire process yeah I'm not sure you can
take back moves though that because it's
a much yeah so as I said we're using mrj
1.5 an alpha version we also have the
just-in-time compiler installed on the
system as well so we see a really
significant jump in the performance
associated with Java on Mac OS as well
and you can see with this little
application we're able to step through
the entire match all 19 moves of it it
wasn't the it wasn't that long and match
evidently and this is a really nice
example of how Java can be used in sort
of a conventional client-server way to
have a local software running talking to
a back-end but with apple's
implementation of java you can actually
just run the applet right off the
internet as well without having to load
down your system with your entire
browsing environment right now the other
thing that we demonstrated a little bit
earlier today was our
support for personal web sharing which
is integrated into Mac OS 8 and I showed
this fairly lame little website that my
family and I've set up on the nice thing
about our integrated web sharing is it
behaves just as you'd expect like any
other web site so you can do some
content creation create links as you
would expect of course follow links to
other web sites anywhere on the Internet
in moving forward with this product
we're going to be extending it fairly
significantly with CGI support and and
lust are extensions moving forward but
the other thing we wanted to highlight
is that not all users of course want to
be web of web publishing professionals
not everybody is comfortable with the
latest Adobe or klaris products some
people simply want to share information
with their colleagues and to that end
we've been able we've created a feature
called
personal net finder with personal net
finder all I have to do is select any
folder on my hard drive and instead of
selecting a default HTML document from
my home page I specify none and that
enables this personal net finder feature
and then when I connect to my site and
when I clear the cache instead of
getting a rendered HTML document what I
get is a listing of the files and the
folders in the folder that I targeted to
share so what this means is we've really
extended personal file sharing and now
we've extended it to internet standard
protocols ok and anybody can connect to
a Mac OS system from any platform as
long as you have a standard browser and
of course people can click on any link
to download files or they can click on
folders to navigate through the system
and of course we support all the various
media types so for example if I click on
a QuickTime movie exactly what you would
expect here I have a Fast Start movie
and it starts to download and we can go
ahead and play that movie
just as you'd expect so again as we we
mentioned earlier we've got a full suite
of Internet services for novice users to
advanced users and over the coming weeks
we're going to be announcing also a Mac
OS 8 is actually going to provide a rich
set of information services that take
advantage of the Internet infrastructure
that we're providing ok that's really
super thanks very much that worked very
well the Peter mentioned personal web
sharing and net finder show how we're
broadening the audience of content
creators well things like Java and the
room the tuner ready for Mac OS for
application services like push
technology in the future both Apple
share IP and personal web sharing will
support the web star API which means you
have a way to build products for these
new content creators now they're not the
only things happening for the Internet
in Mac OS we're also collaborating with
Midas the Macintosh Internet Developers
Association to provide a high level
Internet API that many of you have been
asking for it's code name is Cebu fur
and what sub woofer does is allow you to
add things like FTP access get URL and a
host of other internet services without
having to build them from the protocol
up so if that interests you be sure to
attend the Internet services breakout on
Thursday afternoon to find out more now
what about Java well we've taken some
giant steps forward for instance as
you've heard Mac OS 8 will ship with
integrated Java support plus what you
didn't hear is that our JIT compiler
will be available this summer and as you
can see in this chart
a recent benchmark marked it as a factus
on the platform and finally not only
will support for jdk 1.1 be seated later
this month and release in the fall but
we are committed to syncing up with Suns
JDK releases and we're working closely
with Sun to make sure that happens the
bottom line though is that we're working
very very hard to make Mac OS a
world-class Java platform
and we'll continue to develop support
and promote technologies that make it
easier to deploy Java on the Mac OS okay
that's the Mac OS now what about the
other platforms we've already heard
about Rhapsody and you'll hear more
later on but let's look at the yellow
box in terms of the internet
capabilities that it gives to you and
let's start with a little background as
you may know next step was designed from
the ground up to be network centric in
fact the world wide web was actually
created on next step by Tim berners-lee
at CERN in the early 90s so given that
it's no surprise that Rhapsody is a
great internet development platform for
both content creation and application
services after all yellow box API is are
cross-platform you just write an
internet application once and deploy it
across Rhapsody Mac OS NT and Windows 95
plus the yellow box technology such as
memory protection threading and a native
file system make Rhapsody a great server
platform that allows you to create
robust server solutions and beyond that
it's a whole lot easier to develop
applications that use back-end databases
because the yellow box framework allows
transparent access of data to your
application now let's talk about
integrating internet services into one
of your applications does a yellow box
help of course the fact that lets you
integrate those services quickly easily
in it virtually no cost for instance
adding HTML services to your
applications means maybe a couple of
minutes of work and furthermore those
services are extensible by anyone right
Wylie white well yeah well yes
the long run okay
we're here taking a look at Pizza doing
you know I didn't check I have
confidence though that we will see pizza
very soon yeah we're taking a look again
it opens step 4.2 we're in the developer
environment and this is the interface
builder now we've seen you know John and
Ken and some other people build
applications the interface builder so
I'll probably skip the you know you can
hook a slider to a textview we've seen
that number okay yeah what if you could
build something really cool it well it
turns out that inside the web objects
development team we've had the need to
edit HTML and view HTML and provide HTML
services in the application web objects
builder and to do this we extended the
text frame work in open step to include
the ability to parse HTML and read it
and render it as well as let developers
edit it and doing that one of our
developers had a brainstorm you know
using this same HTML text object you
could very easily create applications to
read an HTML of your own ok and so what
I wanted to do is show you the fruits of
some of that effort here amongst the
pallets that we have in interface
builder we've added one which is a web
palette and I can go here and create a
new application and drag and drop this
HTML text view onto my application
window drag drop resize I can also just
pull off some very ordinary interface
elements I've got a combo box that we
provide for basically entering data and
showing lists of data and we're going to
use this to enter URLs and also show the
list of visited sites and then I have a
button matrix here that just contains
two buttons that have been nicely canned
with icons for forward and back arrows
right so we've got all the elements now
let's wire them together in build an
application to do that first of all I'm
going to send messages from this text
field to the HTML view here that will
tell it to take the URL from it so
drag-drop the inspector comes up and
tells me i want to make a connection and
we're going to say take URL string from
that field and put it into our browser
okay I also need to get the forward and
back buttons wired up and that's pretty
easy actually one more step I'm going to
go from this view here and say I want to
now not connected to itself but
connected to this combo box and it's
going to come our list of visited sites
now I want to connect the buttons here
to the HTML viewer and we'll connect the
forward button to the view not the there
we go so to go forward action we'll
connect the back button to the go back
action and then so we can highlight or
unhighlight the buttons depending on
whether there are forward or backward
selections we'll also have the view send
information back to the buttons to do
that we just drag the button and say
this one is before word button and this
one is the back button so we've built an
application put it into the test
interface mode and interface builder and
this is actually now a running working
web browser let me go to my favorite
website can you guess what that makes me
how about apple.com okay no calm okay I
meant something else I did again none of
that okay so you can tell us is real
because it's taking a little bit of time
you didn't catch anything because we're
building the app on the fly but now
we've loaded in the web page that is the
Apple homepage we're going to render the
images in a second and we can now
navigate around the Apple site and see
information about other great Apple
products any minute
so as we're waiting for this to render
they're all usin it live internets
Emily's good as the people stop hitting
the Apple not complex yeah any of you on
your power books or connected they set
them down okay we a little bit of a
problem there but why don't we actually
navigate over to another site we can
look at information for instance on the
PowerBook 2400 the great view ultra
light notebook or actually my very
favorite page on here just cuz it looks
so beautiful at the PowerBook 1400 you
seen the power book site it's gorgeous
so we'll come in here to power book that
Apple comm see it loads and the images
in the background okay we got a web
browser right no doubt that's great
thanks very much so as you can see the
yellow box makes it easy for you to
integrate internet services as a result
internet integration can be pervasive
across all yellow box applications the
yellow box also has built-in support for
CORBA and I ILP which means that with
two additional lines of code any object
in your application B can become a
distributed object and take advantage of
those services plus the yellow box has
tremendous support for Java integration
between Rhapsody's runtime and Java's
runtime is very very tight and you'll be
able to access all the yellow box native
services from java which means that
you'll be able to write yellow box
applications entirely in the java
language so given that I think you'll
see that the Java and the Rhapsody story
is very compelling I encourage you to
attend to breakouts later this week to
get more detailed
now what about scalability let's say you
create a small database application on
the web today and it becomes incredibly
popular great but now you need to
support more hits and you probably want
to add new services that's where yell
the yellow box scalability saves you
time and money because with all the code
reuse and there's a high degree of it
you'll can extend the reach of your
application without rebuilding it and
without the architecting it now let's
look at web objects which is yet another
power
environment for developing your web
applications but what is web objects I'd
now like to invite Larry slotnick vice
president of Internet and enterprise
product engineering to tell us more
about it Larry Owen thank you welcome
back to Apple thank you thank you really
feels great to be back at Apple after
being away a while some of you may
remember me from my years at klaris as
the vice president of product
development in the past couple of years
since we thought some cataclysmic
cataclysmic change at the top of Apple
I've been at Excel communication
developing products voice mail products
for for the enterprise and one of the
things that I've really learned
developing products for the enterprise
is that selling to is departments and
large corporate accounts is a very
significant and very different kind of a
business model than the things that
we've done in the past that had Apple
and at klaris those is departments are
tend to be indecisive they tend to be
large and unwieldy and conservative in
their decision-making and we we just
just a different approach for how you
want to actually deliver your products
to them I think it's something that we
all have to bear in mind and it's an
opportunity for us to really capitalize
on with the merger of next and in Apple
so let's talk about web objects well
first of all I like to talk about my
organization a few months ago with the
next merger we saw an opportunity to
combine two very talented teams of the
next team that was the team developing
web objects as well as enterprise
objects framework something you're going
to hear quite a bit about today and the
rest of the week and at Apple we had the
team developing in Apple chair IP as
well as cyber dive many of you remember
cyber dog and Internet services
libraries for the Mac o rap so by
combining the teams we felt we haven't
had an opportunity to do something
distinctly different and to really
capitalize on the strengths of both in
enterprise and Internet expert
jeez we decided to call the combining
team the internet and enterprise product
group and I'm pleased to share with you
that I've been asked to lead it so my
team and I have a proposition for you
the developer community on the Mac and
that proposition is quite simple
we'd like to deliver the best developer
tool and system services enabling you to
easily build deploy and manage scalable
custom business solutions for the web I
think that's a pretty major undertaking
it's certainly an ambitious one and it's
one that I'm pretty extremely motivated
about doing and explains why I chose you
return to Apple so now let's talk about
web objects web objects is an open
server based development platform for
developing dynamic web applications and
what do we mean by dynamic well we mean
applications that where the content is
in constant flux and if the content is
in constant flux you need an application
that's going to help you manage the
change dynamically that's your web
object is your product the content
integration management subsystems within
within web objects will do that for you
independent of data type a lot of
objects will handle your multimedia it
will handle your data relational
database data of a variety of different
forms and your applications as data or
as objects effectively now the
relational database piece is quite
interesting enterprise objects framework
and able to transparent view of any of
various databases on the back end
informing SQL ODBC base databases Sybase
you set up a model in enterprise objects
framework and it automatically manages
the complexity manages the transaction
and lets you think about solving the
problem that you're there for which is
your customers the customer problem your
customers problem and your business your
end users will access your product
through standard browser environment and
the product is as you've heard in many
sessions so far today multi-platform a
lot of times we've been using the term
cross-platform
but really the more accurate term I
believe is multi-platform because
many and various F platforms on which
the product run all the products run the
openstep product there also web objects
is language neutral you can write in C
C++ Java of course Objective C and web
object script and we provide the
bindings to make it all just work it's
scalable as well as customizable there
are a number of websites out on that you
can visit yourself today and see web
objects in in actions one of those is
Disney there's also Club Med family comm
and as avi mentioned this morning
there's the Dell computer site I
recommend that you go look at that site
if you want to get a sense of the
scalability and the customization
possible with web object if many of you
may recall a story recently in Business
Week about Dell and how they entirely
transform their business on the basis of
their ability to be responsive to reps
of web-based order processing and that
the product that they used to do that
was web object web object by virtue of
it being object oriented provides for
component reuse there are many different
kinds of objects within the web object
environment application objects are an
interesting one because of the nature of
objects of course and now it includes
both the methods as well as the data and
the web object system manages with the
complexity for you we also have a notion
of pages web pages and page fragments
and those page fragments are a means by
which you can actually develop deliver a
much higher degree of customization you
can actually construct your web pages on
the fly on the basis of either how your
end user navigates your website or data
that actually resides in your back-end
database by compartmentalizing the
complexity you get to a point where the
granularity of your object is sensible
practical for the kinds of product do
you build and you'll be able to reuse
them quite easily the data driven
solutions refers to of course be it
to manage with the character of your
application on the basis of the content
on the backend I'd like to invite while
he hides his back one more time he's
sure busy guy today he's going to
demonstrate go live for us in their
cyber studio product rightly thanks
Larry
one of the very exciting things about
web objects is that beyond just
providing tools for people like
enterprise and corporate developers to
build applications
it really does provide a platform on
which other people can build
applications and in fact a platform to
which other people can build tools I
think all the most exciting examples of
that is go live cyber studio which I
have running here on the Mac actually
this is Netscape Navigator let's bring
up Google IO cyber studio now for those
of you who aren't familiar with cyber
studio it's I think one of the premier
HTML editing and site management
environments it's kind of like if you
mix QuarkXPress and BB edit together for
the web it's fantastic and these guys
that go live saw web objects and I think
are pretty excited and they wanted to
bring the ability to develop with
obvious applications to the Macintosh
and they've done that through cyber
studio so first what I'm going to do is
I'm going to go hit a web page we've got
a server backstage running web objects
so I'll objects that missing gee thanks
I'm better sighs John oh yeah and this
one we're actually resurrecting one of
our favorite old demos just for old
times sake it's the dodge demo any web
objects pan out there will know it very
well now thank you yeah this this is
actually out of date in all kinds of
ways and in fact I've been messing with
the dodge demo a little bit and it's got
some problems as you see here we've got
some form elements that would let us
select cars and prices how we can sort
what we return through our browser and
number of little elements like this link
here the next software we need to fix
this I think I want to update the link
so we point to Apple for one thing and
also click as hard as I might I can't do
anything yet there's no way to submit
the data to the server so I'm going to
go into cyber studio and actually open
this very same application over Apple
share connection so we say file open and
go to my desktop to my logic server and
go into the dodge application and we're
actually looking at the default entry
point which is a page call
mein and we can open the component by
opening its HTML document for now so
what comes up in cyber studio is
basically what we saw previously in
Netscape only we want to do some editing
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to go here to the window that they
provided palettes and they've been
providing for a while a lot of different
HTML elements and things like that now
they've added to that mix web objects
components so I can go here and take for
instance the submit button for web
objects drag and drop it and then I can
bring up a window that they call the
inspector this will let me view and
modify the attributes of this item one
thing I want to have is a label and I
want it to say I don't know about this
Kawai cars the other thing I need to
have is an action and I have to know the
action in the server is also just cars
so we've changed that we've wired it up
the other thing here is that we see
those a web object with a footer on our
page called footer I'm going to quickly
open that up and modify it just slightly
so that instead of showing us the next
logo we're actually going to change that
to something different so look at the
footer element maybe I'll select this
and change it to Apple and we can also
change the link inside here there that's
fast and finally we'll change the image
location so we'll go from the power bi
web objects logo to something else I
have here on the server so the familiar
to some people so this may be the Mac so
save both documents go back to Netscape
and we should have a running application
that's changed all I need to do is hit
reload this is a running live
application on the web and you'll see
now that the changes have taken place we
now see the maximun logo see the
reference to the Apple site and if I say
I want to sort these by type or by model
we should see I think Avengers first on
a list of cars that get returned from
the server
voila you've been here a while number of
time Thank You Riley thank you so have
Bob let me ask you a question why Lee
yes it we heard about blue dots in the
detergent earlier today we're going to
be fair to characterize we have objects
of being washing machine running at 220
volt sir it's a great Khmer all right
thankful all right let's talk about
developer opportunities briefly before
we go back to Alan obviously we have
many many chances here to build
applications that are online the online
capability is one that that will fill
many of you in particular if you have an
application that perhaps has a
seasonality to its data take for example
an accounting application or a taxation
application where you currently have to
re-release your product every time you
want to get a seasonal version out the
door I have to go through a full test
cycle on all the various and sundry
issues related to doing that modifying
contents and so forth with with a web
ablet object based version of that
content managed by web objects itself
you'd be able to simply revise the
content and leave your functionality
components untouched this is what we
refer to as web flying your application
the framework for web objects is also
extremely extensible as we saw we saw
recently with v top software when they
did a perl scripting plugin the web
object this is a very interesting
addition to the family of capabilities
within the web object
genre I guess we could say so the
question is how do you deploy well you
can deploy for free as you heard this
morning on the yellow box there's going
to be a competitive pricing strategy for
the toolset for the WebLogic skill set
including EOF announced during the
summer time frame and i need to say one
more thing and that's you don't actually
have web objects in your in your
backpack
but there is one demo I'd like to do I
don't have a backpack with me but if you
open your backpack pull out the booklet
the collection of booklets the free lewd
Rhapsody booklets you'll find a packet
of CDs in there book through the CDs
you'll find the last TV
is actually a coupon you need to redeem
that coupon tomorrow in order to get a
copy of web objects for that environment
it'll explain it when you go when you
look there so that's all I have to say
you'll be hearing a lot more exciting
things coming out of my department
thanks a lot thank you when you said
that the Sundi competitive pricing you
mean lower yeah very good thanks very
much bye Phil okay so let's talk about
Java there are two parts to Apple's Java
story the first part is Apple's
commitment to the 100% pure Java
initiative
now obviously 100% pure Java is great
for you because you can write
applications once and they will run
anywhere which is why we're integrating
it into both the Mac OS and Rhapsody so
that they'll be world-class Java
platforms
furthermore we'll support both JFC and
AFC to make sure they're fully
functional on our platforms and help you
find out more about both of them we've
invited both Java sauce and Microsoft to
participate in session on Friday
afternoon please go to find out which
framework will best meet your needs now
another way we're supporting 100% pure
Java is through our sponsorships of key
labs and as you probably know key labs
is 100% pure Java certification program
that sanctioned by Sun and how it works
is this you develop 100% pure java
application you send it to key labs and
for a fee they'll test it and part of
that test is running your java app on a
macintosh test suite if your act passed
this attempt you'll get the right to use
100% pure java logo for marketing
purposes
now there's another point of at Java
that I'd like to make it's that we're
working closely with sun to make sure
that the Mac OS and Rhapsody are world
class Java platforms we think there's
tremendous benefits for Sun for Apple
and for you
so we're actively collaborating with son
it's going very well
and it's a great way to help us bring
100 percent to your Java to both the Mac
OS and Rhapsody in a world-class manner
now earlier I said there were two parts
to Apple's Java story the first is Apple
support of 100% pure Java as I told you
that doesn't fit every developers need
some of you need to support native code
in your java applications so the second
part of the story is what we're doing to
provide native services for instance
we're providing Java bindings to the
entire yellow box and web objects API
and with J direct we're providing access
to the Mac OS toolbox in a future
version of mrj and together they should
help you to create great job of
solutions of course some of you already
are now let's take a look at one of your
at were apps which is wired right from J
stream and here to lead us through it is
Apple's Mac OS Java evangelist Shawn
prudence Shawn thanks Allen weather like
what I'd like to show today is a
publishing application it's actually a
native Macintosh application called
wired right from J Stream and what
they're trying to do is address three
barriers they feel to publishing on the
web today one is accessing legacy
information and being able to take that
and publish it out on the web another is
being able to manipulate it within the
publishing environment and then the
third one is distribution but I want to
show you how they're addressing all
three areas in this first of all let's
take a look at accessing legacy data I
have a book that I started and it's
going to be a combination of a number of
different documents so I'm going to pull
together and then generate it out the
back end and 100% pure Java so I already
have Metro work tasks I'll reference
manual which some of you might be
familiar with I'm going to insert into
this a splash screen that I've created
right now they're supporting RTF but by
the time this product ships later this
summer
they'll be supporting all the data
there's translators as well so you'll be
able to get access to all the documents
that you already have and make them
available on the web and
simple way so you'll notice across the
top there are four word processing
capabilities in this application but
what we're going to do is just
manipulate some content that we already
have one of the things that wired right
lets you do is create hot links between
the different documents within a book so
I'm going to quickly create a hot link
between our splash screen here by
marking this as a source so that we open
to the splash screen and then when I
click on it I want to take them to the
top of the top go reference manual so
I'm just going to open that quickly and
create a target link at the very top of
the manual right here okay so if I
create a target link I give it a name
and then there's a hyperlink window that
I can use to wire up one-to-many
relationships between these things so
between slash and the paschal reference
manual I want to set the link it shows
me down here all the different links
that I have so some type of link
capability is very easy to add in here
as a publisher of content the other
thing that they allow you do which I
think is the most powerful piece of
Wired right is the ability to manipulate
the styles that come in the documents
that you've created here we've pulled in
these RTF documents and you'll notice
that in this Pascal manual there's a
number of different styles that are
already in there that you can create new
styles you can manipulate them and you
can add some new functionality here's
the standard kinds of things that you
would recognize from probably a word
processor or something what they've done
is some interesting things in terms of
table of contents so if I pick a style
you'll notice down here that it can have
a level from a table of contents
associated with it but I've already gone
through before and created different
styles for our header our different
levels of table contents for our headers
so that if we were to automatically
generate a table of contents all the
header information from the entire
document would flow through into a table
of content right click on one of the
other things we'll see later when I do a
search with the end document in Java is
that that style information is reused to
do contextual searches and we'll take a
look at that in just a minute one of the
other things we're going to add it's not
in the product right now it's just in
alpha but by the time it ships this
summer you're going to be doing two
extra things to the style information
which i think is really exciting they
call it intelligent adding intelligence
to the content they're going to allow
you to apply Swiss style
metering information so you'll be able
to do pay per view documents where you
generate one Java document
and depending on the transaction that
the user has done it only displays the
part that they've paid for another thing
to be able to do is apply security
levels to the content so again you can
see like you can distribute one document
and then based on your security level
you'll be able to see different parts of
it the other thing they're going to do
in future version is allow you to
actually attach Java logic to any of the
styles as well so because the end
vehicle what you're distributing is a
hundred percent pure Java document
you'll be able as a publisher to add
Java logic to any of these styles and
have really intelligent content out the
backend which is really cool so let's
now take a look at one more thing in
terms of what you can do as a publisher
in the Jay press area we can actually
wrap text so I'll show you when we get
out to the backend what that means but
what you're generating because it's a
Java program at the other end is a live
text stream so I say it to wrap would be
able to resize this and if there's just
static text on an eight-and-a-half by 11
sheet of paper it'll actually reflow
live so let's take a look at that now I
finished my publishing aspect of it I
want to actually generate out the Java
for the backend so I've been doing all
this so far on a Macintosh application
it's the third the second part they
wanted to address with ease of
distribution so we are going to print
this out into Java and it's easy as
saying let's generate this J press I
want to make sure that it opens to my
splash screen I'm going to put it in a
folder up here at the top level and away
we go it's taking these RTF documents
and in the future data vis translated
documents and creating this book in 100%
pure Java in fact J stream was the first
company to be certified at 100% pure
java application a few weeks ago at
JavaOne so there we are it's finished
I'm going to hide wired right and I'm
going to go out here and show you that
it has actually created all of the Java
classes that you need to run this on the
VM in the final version it will support
JDK 1-1 and create this as a jar file so
it will be double clickable they also
support something called J manager J
manager let some Macintosh applications
support Java applets directly inside of
it so as a publisher I can preview this
Java document that I'm creating right
within the wired write application but I
thought it would be more interesting to
show it running in the applet viewer
which is what the end user experience
would be when they receive
this document out the back end so here
we have our Flash screen running in this
viewer that we've automatically
generated I click on it it takes me to
our path they'll reference page built
into this document now is the viewer
itself that knows how to render these
these out these documents and it has
built-in contextual finds which I talked
about before when I click on it find it
slipping through the 73 page document
and finding these thousands of
references to the word task l quickly
what we find down here is a reference to
what section of the books this actually
belongs to and remember we talked about
level in the table of contents before
what it's actually doing is finding the
word task l looking back in the document
for the last level that belong to a
table of content and then displaying
that text over here in the search
mechanism so you notice how fast though
it wasn't well and the other really
great part about this is the document
are very very tiny so I don't know if
you saw back in the original wired right
application back in this window this
original document was over ten and a
half megabytes big the resulting J press
document that comes out 100% pure is a
311 K document must impress including a
70k viewer it is the Java piece that
actually renders it on the fly they're
seeding it right now
www.gfi.com/webmonitor
okay let me summarize this section by
reiterating both our support for Java
and our commitment to helping you
develop with Java whether you choose to
implement 100% pure Java or native
applications okay
the last development environment I want
to highlight is Apple's QuickTime media
layer and QuickTime in particular as you
know QuickTime gives you powerful
capabilities for both creating and
delivering web content it's supported by
all the major browsers through Apple's
QuickTime plugin for the operating
systems that you see on the slide it's
the most popular way to deliver video on
the net today as well as tomorrow
because we're continuing to move it
forward aggressively so with that as an
intro yours Peter Hadi to take us
through some demos Peter I'm going to do
today is show you a little bit about
what we're doing with QuickTime on the
internet even before Apple did anything
happens to me all the time even before
we did anything at Apple to support
QuickTime on the internet lots of people
were putting put time movies on the
Internet why were they doing it because
QuickTime it's the best way to
distribute digital video can be viewed
on any platform Macintosh windows unit
so they were put in QuickTime up there
because it was convenient the only bad
thing was he had waste of movies to
download before you could see them so
the first thing we did in our plugin was
make it so that you didn't have to wait
so even though this movie is still
downloading I can play it I have full
QuickTime interactivity this is
something that we shipped simultaneously
for Macintosh and Windows over a year
ago so most people for some strange
reasons don't think it's only available
for Macintosh we were the first to do
anything like that yes so we started
looked at this instead streaming
QuickTime movies is great but you know
the web is really about it's really much
more about text and images it's becoming
more dynamic there's more animated
content in there but pictures are really
a very important part of what the web is
and so we have this great technology as
part of the media layer I'll click on VR
which lets you take photographs and
embed them and look around that
photograph the problem was the R didn't
stream
so we've recently added streaming to VR
so when I get it first is a low
resolution version of the image sort of
like a progressive jpg but if I wait
what you'll see is more data arise when
I get a higher higher resolution version
of the image keeps getting better just
gets better so it encourages people to
spend more time at your webpage they get
a low resolution preview of what you're
doing and if they wait they spend more
time it gets better they get a nice
review and it's not intrusive it's just
it's like a photograph on the page so
it's not you know dancing around the
screen and confusing and annoying you
yeah exactly so we sort of looked at
this long without G pictures what a
great thing we had this old picture we
had lying around and we thought gee you
know this this picture is nice but again
what can we do that's not obtrusive to
sort of make the picture a little bit
more real and so for about the same data
size we have the put time movie here
that's just one frame we've added about
100 bytes extra to the picture and it's
doing this water effect rendered in real
time take the exact same amount of time
to download as a picture you saw before
but the webpage is much more interesting
the webpage also picks up something else
which is it's a little bit more
interactive too so what's nice here is
with the technology it's very easy to
see how you would use you have to have
to learn tons of new things to take
advantage of this and what I'd like to
do now is show you in fact how we can do
some animations with QuickTime as I said
animation is important animated gif I
think has changed the web more in the
last two years than any other technology
that's out there we've seen it again and
again during the demos today
one thing about animated gifts is they
have quite a bit of limitations they're
only 8-bit color they are only good for
small animations and just in general
they aren't the ideal format something
people may not realize you do because
you even come to the Developers
Conference for years but not everyone
knows the clip times has an animation
engine built into it what I've got here
is one of the most popular products for
authoring animation Macromedia director
what I'm going to do now is export this
director animation to a QuickTime movie
now if I do that using the traditional
method and director and I say export we
will be here for about the next half
hour and I will get a file out that's
2.1 megabytes this will not be very
practical for web distribution or for
this demo or for this demo so what I'm
going to do is you the QuickTime sprite
exporter this is something that we've
created that Apple Computer is created
it's available now for free download
from our website I'm just going to say
ok you'll see what we do is scan the
score and we convert this into a
QuickTime format using QuickTime sprite
technology so I'm just going to quit I
thought this movie I'll just open it up
and show you that it's exact same
animation you saw in director playing
inside of movie player and quite really
fast or backwards or whatever but the
thing it's not 2.1 megabytes
it's 191 k so we're getting better
that's you know getting closer to what
you might think about using on the web
but maybe still not quite there
something though that we like to say
about QuickTime is when you bring media
into QuickTime it actually gets better
we can do things with it that you
couldn't do in the original application
so you can see here the cast from
director almost right but I'd like to do
is take this 3d model this is being
rendered with quick-draw 3d another
technology from the QuickTime media
layer and I'd like to replace the
QuickTime logo with this model so all
I'm going to do is drag the
here over to the logo let go a little
luck what I get is a spinning 3d model
in my movie now it's nice about this
couple things one I'm integrating 3d and
put time together this 3d model is only
9 K so not adding something huge it's
the same size as a bitmap would have
been not making my movie bigger and I'm
making it more animated so today I
wanted to deliver this to the web I
would save this let me just do that and
now I've got this movie the problem is
it's still really a little bit too big
for my taste 200 K it's going to take
people a while to download clip 10 300
also supports something we call data
compression I'm going to drop this on a
little application we call compress me
to death
and it will grind away on it for a
little bit applying some compression
technology and instead of not having
movie that's 191 K or 200 K with the 3d
model I have something that 78 K so
brought that way down to the original
2.2 megabytes down to 78 K now the drag
about compression it's usually pretty
slow to decompress and we've done is
used a real-time compression algorithm
decompression algorithm so it's
decompressing each frame as it comes in
so I don't have to wait for the
decompression it just happens it's
completely transparent so this is a nice
way to create animations using powerful
tools you're familiar with like director
use them in QuickTime and enhance them
with other media layer technologies such
as quick-draw 3d now doing all this on a
Macintosh is of course the best way to
do this but there are other than my
forms out there darlington told and so
you've got to make sure if you're going
to create this content that people can
use it anywhere so let's walk way down
the stage and take a look at a Windows
machine so I've got the same movie -
created earlier over here on Windows NT
also running QuickTime 3 oh I'll play it
you see the animation is the same and 3d
is the same QuickTime media layer
technologies are available for Macintosh
and Windows so quick draw 3d put time
all here same capabilities will deliver
these simultaneously later this year
final thing I'd like to show you is in
the
navigator again talking about images and
animated gifts the thing that we sort of
noticed this people use animated gifts
to put a picture on their webpage and
they use image maps so that you'll have
a menu that's graphical that you can
click on but you can't have an image map
which is an animated gif not in have it
be very interesting this is a QuickTime
movie I'm running here using sprites and
because the sprites can have URLs
associated with them when I click on
them I go to a web page that's really
[Applause]
tiny motorola lenders position is
different get Motorola's there we go so
it's nice here again is using a simple
tool like director something you're
probably familiar with you can add very
easily some capabilities URL linking to
your animations and things and with very
small data sizes so these are things
that you can take advantage of
immediately you know you'll be able to
deliver them to macintosh you know
you'll be able to deliver them to
Windows users and you know that they'll
work and look the same wherever those go
so we'll be talking a lot more about
foot time three oh during the conference
especially keynote Thursday morning at
8:30 if you can wake up so I encourage
you to come and find out more thanks
thanks very much
okay so let's summarize for a moment
we've talked about how we plan to extend
our leadership in the content creation
realm to talk about the spectrum of new
and continuing platforms that we're
creating and that we are supporting
namely the Mac OS Rhapsody the yellow
box web objects Java and QT ml we've
talked about how we are well positioned
for the future but what is the bottom
line it's this Apple helps you create
internet opportunities lots of them in
lots of different areas and so let's
take a look at the slide and remember
that when we look at the opportunities
presented by an application services
model that gave us a process view but
it's hard to translate that to market
opportunities so it's not the
application services model to this view
of the Internet for instance today you
have a browser but in the future web
enabled applications will be accessing
content which is what we mean by the
clients on this graph now the content
bar is a number of desktops involved in
internet publishing and it's followed by
developers of web applications and vice
servers use to deploy these solutions so
what you see are four areas in which you
can be creative and make money now some
of you play in just one of these areas
some of you are in more than one and
Apple of course plays in all of them
with varying degrees of market presence
as you can see in this graphic so
everything we've talked about in this
session in fact apples entire internet
strategy is designed to boost both your
opportunities and our market share we
don't expect that increase to be uniform
but in your main development areas we're
expecting substantial growth and we'll
support that growth any way we can in
particular we're doing it by leveraging
our strengths in the content authoring
space and by providing the new internet
platforms that we've talked about today
in turn I strongly encourage you to
support the Internet in your current and
future applications to use web web
objects or to extend
to incorporate Java to use the great new
features in Qt ml and finally to begin
planning for your next generation of
applications using the yellow box
I truly believe we're entering new and
better times and as we roll into the
next century
we'll see the internet become as
ubiquitous as the phone or the TV we'll
see tens of millions of people
publishing on the net with the Apple
emerge is the acknowledged leader in
providing supporting and integrating the
world very best internet technologies
we'll see your continued leadership as
the most creative developers in the
world and finally we'll see business
opportunities that are beyond the bounds
of today's imagination oh thank you very
much was wondering where that peak to us
thanks a lot there demo and we deliver
okay that's great thanks very much and
here's your money then thank you thanks
a lot thank you very much for your
support of Apple and enjoy the rest of
the conference
Thanks
[Music]